In 'Poor Pretty Ruby', Broughton successfully achieves to show the narrator's changing emotions throughout the exposition, we can enter the narrator's constant thoughts about Bobby. When she's asleep, when she wakes up, clearly showing they have an unbreakable bond and that he will always remain a part in her, no matter how far in distance they are. 'When he went he kissed me, I kissed him back again!' indicating their romantic love for each other and now, even though a few days have passed of him being gone, she dreams of him, 'thinks of him', and takes over her thoughts 'mostly' in her 'head'. The narrator feels nostalgic about her 'boy-lover', who is miles away 'boy-love'.
In the middle of the extract, when a sudden knock emerges at the hall-door, the narrator 'trembles with excitement and fear'; 'eagerly' keen to see who it is. Expecting anyone other than Bobby. However when she 'peeps out', she's flooded with 'joy', ex thinking 'Good heavens!' when she sees her 'beautiful boy-lover Bobby', implying she's over the moon to finally finally see him after a long time and would've never guessed in a million years that it would be him. Not only does she feel flabbergasted, but also extremely impatient to properly see him as she demands the butler, Stephens, to 'Open the door, quick'.
However, towards the end of the extract straight after the 'door opening wide', more 'a feeling of cold disappointment steals unaccountably over me', creating an intense theme of dramatic effects. The narrator wanted to see the Bobby that 'walked in the garden' with her, the Bobby that 'kissed me when he went' not the Bobby that didn't make a single inch towards her, didn't show any affection, 'didn't catch me in his arms', 'nor even hold out his hand to me', implying that maybe Bobby is a changed, unaffectionate person anymore. This is heightened by the narrator's questions of worry, 'what has happened', 'where have you come from?', trying to comfort him as she 'stretches out a hand' but 'a sensation of intense cold runs up my fingers' suggesting the narrator is frightened by his actions and appearance.